Retrieving User Input Using the Element API (#495)
vaadin/flow-and-components-documentation: documentation/element-api/tutorial-user-input.asciidoc

---
title: Retrieving User Input Using the Element API
order: 4
layout: page
---

= Retrieving User Input Using the Element API

In this section we demonstrate how to use the Element API to retrieve user input. Our example adds a text input field that allows the user to enter their name. 

. Create a text input element. 
+
*Example*: Creating a `textInput` element with a `placeholder` attribute. 
+
[source,java]
----
Element textInput = ElementFactory.createInput();
textInput.setAttribute("placeholder", "Please enter your name");
----

. Transfer the value to the server, by asking the client to update the server-side input element every time the value changes in the browser.
+
*Example*: Using the `synchronizeProperty` method to update the value of the text input element.
+
[source,java]

----
textInput.synchronizeProperty("value","change");
----

> * Changes to the listed properties are synchronized to the server when any event occurs in the browser.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Configures Flow to synchronize the `value` property to the server-side when `change` event occurs.
```
